

“I still don’t get why I have to eat breakfast if you don’t,” Josie muttered.
“Because you have to be a certain age to earn the right to ruin your own life.”

Anyone who lives in her own world is crazy. 
Like schizophrenics, psychopaths, maniacs. 
I mean people who are different from others.

Even if that person only existed in her delirium, 
she had the right to live and die as she wanted,
don’t you think?”

To say good-bye. 
That was the really difficult part. 
Once in a mental hospital, 
a person grows used to the freedom that exists in the world of insanity and becomes addicted to it. 
You no longer have to take on responsibilities, 
to struggle to earn your daily bread, 
to be bothered with repetitive, mundane tasks.
You could spend hours looking at a picture or making absurd doodles.
Everything is tolerated because, after all, the person is mentally ill.

That is why embittered people find heroes and madmen a perennial source of fascination, 
for they have no fear of life or death. 
Both heroes and madmen are indifferent to danger and will forge ahead regardless of what other people say. 
The madman committed suicide, the hero offered himself up to martyrdom in the name of a cause, but both would die, 
and the embittered would spend many nights and days remarking on the absurdity and the glory of both. 
It was the only moment when the embittered person had the energy to clamber up his defensive walls 
and peer over at the world outside, 
but then his hands and feet would grow tired, 
and he would return to daily life.


“I should have been crazier.” 
But, as it undoubtedly happens with most people, she had found this out too late.

Like children, the insane will not budge until their desires have been satisfied.

When the law was broken, 
God—the omnipotent judge—even pretended to pursue them, 
as if he did not already know every possible hiding place. 
With the angels looking on, amused by the game
(life must have been very dreary for them since Lucifer left heaven), 
he began to walk about the garden.

Did he not realize he was drawing Veronika back into the world, 
and that that was the worst thing he could do to someone with no hope of salvation?

“We’re allowed to make a lot of mistakes in our lives,” said her colleague,
“except the mistake that destroys us.”

You’re the only man on the face of the earth with whom I could fall in love, Eduard, 
for the simple reason that, when I die, you will not miss me.

“Perhaps, to begin with, you’ll miss the fact that there’s no more night music, 
but the moon will still rise, there’ll be someone willing to play sonatas for you,
especially in a hospital, where each and every one of us is a ‘lunatic.’”

“Am I cured?”
“No. You’re someone who is different,
but who wants to be the same as everyone else. 
And that, in my view, is a serious illness.”
“Is wanting to be different a serious illness?”
“It is if you force yourself to be the same as everyone else. 
It causes neuroses, psychoses, and paranoia. 
It’s a distortion of nature, it goes against God’s laws, 
for in all the world’s woods and forests, he did not create a single leaf the same as another. 
But you think it’s insane to be different, and that’s why you chose to live in Villete, 
because everyone is different here, and so you appear to be the same as everyone else. 
Do you understand?”

It will last an eternity, Veronika; 
longer than all the identical days and nights I’ve spent in here, 
constantly trying to forget those visions of paradise. 
And I almost did forget them, too, though it seems to me they’re coming back.


Whether it hurts is kind of irrelevant. 

"Holmesy, someday you're going to win the Nobel Prize for Being Incredibly Pedantic, 
and I'm going to be so proud of you."

I just drew the short straw so I have to get inside the fricking Chuckie costume.
See you later if I survive.
If I die weep at my grave every day until a seedling appears in the dirt, 
then cry on it to make it grow until it becomes a beautiful tree whose roots surround my body.
They’re making me go now they’re taking away my phone REMEMBER ME HOLMESY.
Update: I survived. Getting a ride to Applebee’s after work. See you.

“Welcome to the future, Holmesy. 
It’s not about hacking computers anymore; it’s about hacking human souls.
The file is in your email.”


